Physical Therapy Nutley

Home
At Physical Therapy Nutley, we believe in each patient's right to thorough physical therapy treatment under the care of a licensed physical therapist. Our staff will communicate with you about your treatment options, and will work with you to determine an individualized course of action. Our vision is that our patients may be able to overcome health issues without losing their quality of life, and may feel confident in returning safely to all areas of their lives, including work, family or recreational activities.

About 
Physical therapy is an important part of your recovery goal and at Physical Therapy Nutley we will work with you to obtain your optimum level of function and allow you to return to a pain free life. We offer a variety of services, including; pain relief therapy, rehab exercises, therapeutic exercises, muscle strengthening and post-injury treatment for orthopedic conditions. Our high quality skilled and qualified physical therapists provide individualized treatment plans that focus on patient satisfaction in ensuring each individual receives personalized care based around his or her specific needs.

Services 

Chiropractic Care
Our chiropractors specialize in treating patients suffering from back pain, neck pain, headaches, sciatica and other spinal related conditions. Whether you’ve suffered years of chronic pain or are just now experiencing your first episode of pain, our chiropractors can provide the evaluation and treatment necessary to get your body back on track to optimal health and wellness. Our chiropractors will guide you on how to avoid future injuries and how to best care for your body!

Women’s Health
Women's health at physical therapy Nutley is a specialized care focused on treating conditions specific to women, such as pelvic floor disorders, urinary incontinence and severe pain. Our therapists specialize in providing women's health physical therapy services for postpartum pain, pelvic floor dysfunction and other issues affecting women of all ages.

Occupational therapy
Occupational therapy helps patients with injuries or disabilities regain the maximum possible level of functional independence and well-being.Occupational therapists help people improve the way they work, play, learn, communicate and are involved in their communities. Occupational therapy services at physical therapy nutley include exercise and other activities that are specifically tailored to meet each individual's needs to alleviate symptom burdens.

Sports physical therapy 
Our sports physical therapists utilize methods such as manual therapy, electrical muscle stimulation and also a variety of exercises to help an athlete get back into competition shape. During the rehab process, our therapist will oversee your exercises, tailor your treatment plan to your specific needs that will help you to go back to your field..

Percussion therapy
Percussion therapy is a treatment modality that helps relieve pain and improve your muscle tissue repair. It can also be used to relieve pain caused by injuries, surgeries or aging-related changes.Percussion therapy involves bringing a percussive force against the body. During this procedure a therapist can use their hands, forearms, elbows and even their feet to hit various parts of the body. 

Acupuncture and dry Needling 
Acupuncture and dry needling is a safe, non-invasive form of treatment that can help you overcome pain and disease. The treatments work by increasing blood flow to the affected areas, therefore boosting immunity and healing. We use a thin needle to penetrate trigger points and promote natural recovery. Dry needling can ease you from chronic pain, relieve postoperative pain, reduce nausea, sharpen your senses and increase energy levels.

Treatment

Shockwave therapy

Shock Wave Therapy is used to break down scar tissue in order to reduce pain. This non-surgical therapy uses sound waves to penetrate the skin at varying degrees of intensity to disrupt the collagen (scar tissue) that has formed. This creates micro-fissures in the underlying subcutaneous tissue, which ultimately can lead to a significant increase in blood supply and create new tissue formation. The overall goal with this unique therapy is to increase the local circulation of cellular nutrients and oxygen as well as decrease inflammation in the area. This approach provides relief from chronic pain while stimulating soft-tissue repair and healing.


Children physical therapy
Children who have been injured, have a developmental problem or suffer from pain from an illness or disability can benefit from physical therapy at our clinic. It is important that children with such limitations benefit from physical therapy in order to strengthen the affected area and build endurance. Our team of professional physical therapists would provide your children with the support, attention and care they deserve. 

Neuromuscular Stabilization
Neuromuscular Stabilization (NMS) is a coordination of neuromuscular movement retraining, physiological and cerebral components that deals with this issue. The main goal of NMS is to achieve the maximum improvement of both physical and mental capabilities in a patient by restoration of his/her impaired bio-motor abilities.

Springboard pilates therapy
The pilates springboard helps you gain/regain correct functional restoration that you have lost in the locomotor system. This is possible with correct and specific manual and therapeutic exercises and programs. The springboard helps you restore correct muscle function and to help improve your overall bio mechanical structure.

Wellness and fitness
Being fit does contribute to how well one feels not only physically but mentally as well. 
Yoga is a great way to stay well and fit for all that are looking for a well rounded experience. Doing yoga is also a good way to just relax. At physical therapy nutley we offer wellness and fitness programmes which keep you fit and healthy  in every aspect of life.

Pelvic floor rehabilitation
Pelvic floor disorders, such as pelvic organ prolapse and urinary or fecal incontinence, can severely impact an individual's health and quality of life. Pelvic floor disorders can result from pregnancy, childbirth, excessive straining during bowel movements (e.g. as a consequence of constipation), chronic coughing, lower back pain, repetitive heavy lifting, obesity or simply growing older. Pelvic floor physical therapy is a safe treatment that can restore bladder control, relieve pressure on pelvic organs, normalize bowel movements and strengthen the muscles of the pelvis.




Pain 
Back pain:

Back pain can be extremely debilitating, and it's understandable.We understand the frustration and despair that accompanies chronic lower back and spine pain. We've helped countless people get back to their lives. Whatever the case may be, Physical Therapy Nutley is here to help you get your life back again by providing responsive, affordable outpatient physical therapy services. 

Shoulder Pain:

Pain in the shoulder area can result from a condition called shoulder impingement, the narrowing of the space between bones and soft tissues that leads to irritation of the rotator cuff tendons and bursa sacs. In these cases, physical therapists are best suited to treat shoulder pain since they are experts in shoulder evaluation and the treatment of shoulder disorders.

Neck pain:

Neck pain is one of the most common types of problems people experience today. Whether it is caused by injury, strain, poor posture or poor sleeping positions, neck pain can have a negative impact on your day to day life. Our experts can help you to reduce your neck pain  and in some cases we can provide a solution for the future. 

Knee pain

Knee pain is experienced by many people. This can occur due to various reasons like arthritis, osteoarthritis, inflammation of tendons or the joint dislocating itself. Physical therapy is an effective treatment for such chronic knee pain. If you are experiencing knee pain and want to treat it, then it is best to visit physical therapy Nutley.

Foot & ankle pain

Foot and ankle pain is a common concern, especially as you age. The pain may be caused by strained muscles, arthritis or other medical conditions. Your treatment will be aimed at eliminating pain, increasing range of motion, increasing stability and strengthening the intrinsic muscles to eliminate the cause of the pain and help prevent future injury. 

Muscle pain

Muscle pain is often something that just comes with working out or basic everyday life. However, there are many muscles that cause pain that normally won't pass a weak mark. If you're experiencing this type of muscle pain, you'll need to seek physical therapy treatment to eliminate any potential causes of the prolonged muscle pain.


Contact Us

For all your questions, feel free to contact us. We will be happy to help.


Footer

Physical Therapy Nutley
At Physical Therapist in Nutley, we are dedicated to offering the best treatment plans using proven and advanced medical practices. Our team of experts makes it a point to tailor your treatment plan as per your needs, keeping in mind the requirement of each patient. With our relentless efforts, we provide quality services to our patients.
